'\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2012-2015 RIKEN AICS
.\" nroff -u0 -Tlp -man
.TH kmrfsplit.py 1 "2014-02-04" "KMR" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kmrfsplit.py \- split a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBkmrfsplit.py\fR [-n num] [-s pattern] [-d outdir] [-p prefix] [-f] file
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
kmrfsplit.py splits a file into a number of files (-n) with roughly
equal sizes.  It assumes an input file consists of many records
started by a string matching to a given pattern.  When a pattern is
not found in a certain range in the input file (around the split
point), an error will be reported.
.sp
When outdir (-d) is specified, output files are saved under the
directory.  By default, output files have names "partX" and saved in
the current directory, where X is a six-digit sequence number starting from 0
with some leading zeros.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
-n num
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the number to split.  Default is 1.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
-s pattern
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a pattern string of a record separator.  A line matching to
this pattern starts a new record.  It accepts regular expressions.
Default is "\\n".
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
-d outdir
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies an output directory.  Output files are saved under it.
Default is the currrent directory.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
-p prefix
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a prefix to output file names.  File names are suffixed by a
number.  Default is "part".
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
-f
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Forces to create an output directory if it does not exist.
.RE
