'\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2012-2018 RIKEN R-CCS
.\" nroff -u0 -Tlp -man
.TH kmrgenscript.py 1 "2014-02-04" "KMR" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kmrgenscript.py \- generates a job-script
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBkmrgenscript.py\fR [-e node] [-p prefix] [-o outfile] [-d dir] [-O outdir] [-t rsctime] [-S sched] [-w file] [-M] [-f] -m mapper -r reducer
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
kmrgenscript.py generates a job-script for job schedulers.  It reads a
template of a job-script "kmrgenscript.template" either from the
current directory, "lib" directory next to "bin" where this script is
found, or installation directory, searching in this order.  Currently,
it only supports "Parallelnavi" on K as a job scheduler.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
-e node
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the number of nodes (processes) to execute.  Default is 1.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
-p prefix
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a prefix to the input file names.  Default is "part".
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
-o outfile
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a prefix to the output file names.  Default is "output".
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
-d indir
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the input directory.  Default is the current directory.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
-O outdir
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the output directory.  The output directory holds the result
files.  Default is the current directory.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
-t rsctime
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies time limit in the job resources.  This is given by
"00:00:00" format.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
-S sched
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a job scheduler.  Only "K" for Parallelnavi on K is
supported.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
-w scrfile
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a script output file.  Default is STDOUT.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
-M
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies multiple input files are given to a mapper.  In case of the
number of input files is greater than the number of processes, it
assigns multiple files to one process.  For using this option, -d
option is required.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
-f
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Forces to create an output directory if it does not exist.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
For example, the following script is generated.
.sp
.nf
.RS
#!/bin/bash -x
#
#PJM --rsc-list "node=2"
#PJM --rsc-list "elapse=00:10:00"
#PJM --rsc-list "proc-core=unlimited"
#PJM --stg-transfiles "all"
#PJM --mpi "use-rankdir"
#PJM --stgin "rank=* ./kmrshell     %r:./"
#PJM --stgin "rank=* ./mapper       %r:./"
#PJM --stgin "rank=* ./kmrshuffler  %r:./"
#PJM --stgin "rank=* ./reducer      %r:./"
#PJM --stgin "rank=* ./part%r       %r:./input"
#PJM --stgout "rank=* %r:./output.%r ./output.%r"
#PJM -S
\&. /work/system/Env_base
mpiexec -n 2 -of-proc output ./kmrshell ./mapper ./reducer ./input
.fi
.RE
