'\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2012-2018 RIKEN R-CCS
.\" nroff -u0 -Tlp -man
.TH kmrrun 1 "2014-06-02" "KMR" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kmrrun \- MapReduce command line tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBkmrrun\fR -n m_num[:r_num] -m mapper [-k kvgenerator] [-r reducer]
       [--ckpt] input
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
kmrrun starts a MapReduce process whose mapper and reducer are user programs.
It can run serial/MPI program as mapper and reducer.
By using kmrrun, users can easily execute a MapReduce task and also
embarrassingly parallel tasks.

Users have to prepare three programs to run MapReduce using kmrrun: mapper,
reducer and key-value pair generator programs.
The key-value pair generator program is used to parse output files of
mapper and then generate key-value pairs passed to reducer.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
-n m_num[:r_num]
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the number of processes to run mapper and reducer.
If 'r_num' is omitted, the reducer is run with the same number of processes
as the mapper.
When the number is 1 the mapper/reducer program is assumed to be a serial
program, and when the number is bigger than 1 the program is assumed to be
an MPI program.

.sp
Default is 1 for both m_num and r_num.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
-m mapper
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a mapper program.  The program can have arguments, where
they are separated by a whitespace.
.sp
Mapper specification: A mapper can be a serial program or an MPI program.
It receives name of the input file as the last parameter.
If the output of mapper needs to be passed to reducer, the output should be
written to files which can be distinguished by input file name to the mapper.
For example, if the input file to the mapper is "000",
the name of the output is "000.dat".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
-k kvgenerator
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a key-value pair generator program. The program can have arguments,
where they are separated by a whitespace.
.sp
KV generator specification: A key-value pair generator program should be a
serial program and should read the output files of a mapper.
It will receive a input file name to the mapper program as the last parameter.
So if the mapper receives "000" as input and generates "000.dat" as output,
the KV generator should construct the output file name of the
mapper ("000.dat") from input file name of the mapper ("000").
It should output key-value to STDOUT.
Output data is a sequence of a line "key value\\n", where the fields are
separated by a whitespace.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
-r reducer
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a reducer program.  The program can have arguments, where
they are separated by a whitespace.
.sp
Reducer Specification: A reducer can be a serial program or an MPI program.
It receives a file as input as the last parameter.
Name of the input file is "key" and its content is a sequence of a line
"key value\\n", where the fields are separated by a whitespace.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
--ckpt
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables checkpoint/restart.
.RE
