'\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2012-2016 RIKEN AICS
.\" nroff -u0 -Tlp -man
.TH kmrrungenscript.py 1 "2014-06-03" "KMR" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kmrrungenscript.py \- generates a job-script for kmrrun
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBkmrrungenscript.py\fR [-q queue] [-t rsctime] [-e node] [-s shape]
                   [-p proc] [-d dir] [-n task_proc]
                   -m mapper [-k kvgenerator] [-r reducer]
                   [-C] [-R ckptdir] [-S sched] [-w file]
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
kmrrungenscript.py generates a job-script that executes kmrrun once
for a specified job scheduler.  Currently, it supports "Parallelnavi"
on K computer and SLURM on FOCUS supercomputer as job schedulers.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:

.sp
.ne 2
.na
-q queue, --queue=queue
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a queue to submit the generated job-script.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
-t rsctime, --resource-time=rsctime
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies time limit in the job resources.  This is given by
"00:00:00" format.  Default is "00:10:00".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
-e node, --number-of-exec-node=node
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the number of nodes (processes) to execute.  Default is 12.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
-s shape, --shape=shape
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the MPI process shape.  Valid only on K scheduler.
Default is 1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
-p procs, --proc=procs
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the number of MPI processes.  Valid only on K scheduler.
Default is 8.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
-d indir, --inputdir=indir
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the input directory.  When used on K computer, this directory
should be one located in K global storage that is staged-in.
Default is "./input".
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
-n task_proc, --task-proc=task_proc
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the number of processes to run each mapper and reducer.
Default is 1.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
-m mapper, --mapper=mapper
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies mapper program and its arguments.
A mapper program can be a serial or an MPI program.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
-k kvgenerator, --kvgen=kvgenerator
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies key-value generator program and its arguments.
A key-value generator program should be a serial program.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
-r reducer, --reducer=reducer
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies reducer program and its arguments.
A reducer program can be a serial or an MPI program.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
-C, -ckpt
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables checkpoint/restart.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
-R ckptdir, --restart-filename=ckptdir
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies prefix of directories where checkpoint files are located.
This option should be given when restarting on a system that requires staging.
Valid only on K scheduler.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
-S sched, --scheduler=sched
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a job scheduler.  Specify Scheduler 'K' or 'FOCUS'. 'K'
supports K computer/FX10 and 'FOCUS' supports Focus supercomputer.
Default is 'K'.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
-w scrfile, --write-scriptfile=scrfile
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a script output file.  Default is STDOUT.
.RE

.SH EXAMPLES
.sp
.LP
For example, the following script is generated.
.sp
.nf
.RS
$ kmrrungenscript.py -q small -e 10 -s 2 -p 2 -d input \\
-m pi.mapper -k pi.kvgen.sh -r pi.reducer -C -R ckptdir_12345
.sp
.nf
.RS -7
It will generate the following job script.
.sp
.nf
.RS
#!/bin/bash -x
#
#PJM --rsc-list "rscgrp=small"
#PJM --rsc-list "elapse=00:10:00"
#PJM --rsc-list "node=10"
#PJM --mpi "shape=2"
#PJM --mpi "proc=2"
#PJM --rsc-list "proc-core=unlimited"
#PJM --stg-transfiles "all"
#PJM --stgin "./kmrrun ./kmrrun"
#PJM --stgin "./pi.mapper ./pi.mapper"
#PJM --stgin "./pi.kvgen.sh ./pi.kvgen.sh"
#PJM --stgin "./pi.reducer ./pi.reducer"
#PJM --stgin "./input/* ./input/"
#PJM --stgin "./ckptdir_12345.00000/* ./ckptdir00000/"
#PJM --stgin "./ckptdir_12345.00001/* ./ckptdir00001/"
#PJM --stgin "./ckptdir_12345.00002/* ./ckptdir00002/"
#PJM --stgin "./ckptdir_12345.00003/* ./ckptdir00003/"
#
# !!WRITE STGOUT HERE!!
#
#PJM --stgout "./ckptdir00000/* ./ckptdir_%j.00000/"
#PJM --stgout "./ckptdir00001/* ./ckptdir_%j.00001/"
# !!PJM --stgout "./core* ./"
#PJM -S

\&. /work/system/Env_base

mpiexec -n 2 ./kmrrun -n 1 -m "./pi.mapper" -k "./pi.kvgen.sh" \\
-r "./pi.reducer" --ckpt ./input
.fi
.RE
