'\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2012-2018 RIKEN R-CCS
.\" nroff -u0 -Tlp -man
.TH kmrshell 1 "2014-02-04" "KMR" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kmrshell \- map-reduce by shell command pipeline
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBkmrshell\fR -m mapper -r reducer file
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
kmrshell performs map-reduce by pipelining shell commands, also called
"streaming" in Hadoop.  It forks and execs processes of a mapper, a
shuffler, and a reducer, and they are joined through pipes.  kmrshell
reads a file and passes the contents to a mapper.  When a directory
name is given instead of a file, kmrshell reads all regular files
under the directory and passes them to a mapper (not recursive).
Shuffler is written with KMR.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
-m mapper
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a mapper program.  The program can have arguments, where
they are separated by a whitespace.
.sp
Mapper specification: A mapper reads data from STDIN and outputs
key-value data to STDOUT.  Output data is a sequence of a line "key
value\\n", where the fields are separated by a whitespace.
.RE
.sp
.ne 2
.na
-r reducer
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a reducer program.  The program can have arguments, where
they are separated by a whitespace.
.sp
Reducer Specification: A reducer reads key-value data from STDIN and
outputs the result to STDOUT.  Input data is a sequence of a line "key
value\\n", where the fields are separated by a whitespace.
Lines with the same keys constitutes consecutive lines.
.RE
