'\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2012-2015 RIKEN AICS
.\" nroff -u0 -Tlp -man
.TH kmrshell_mpi 1 "2014-02-04" "KMR" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
kmrshell_mpi \- map-reduce by shell command pipeline
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.nf
\fBkmrshell_mpi\fR -n m_num[:r_num] -m mapper [-k kvgenerator] [-r reducer] inputfile
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.sp
.LP
kmrshell starts map-reduce shell processes (for "streaming").  It runs
MPI program as mapper and reducer.  The output files of the mapper are
parsed by a key-value generator program (specified by '-k' option) to
generate key-value pairs and then they are shuffled and written to
files on each rank with 'key'-named as a text file whose line
represents a key-value separated by a space.  The file is passed to
the reducer as the last parameter.
.SH OPTIONS
.sp
.LP
The following options are supported:
.sp
.ne 2
.na
-n m_num[:r_num]
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
    ......
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
-m mapper
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a mapper program.  The program can have arguments, where
they are separated by a whitespace.
.sp
Mapper specification: A mapper reads data from STDIN and outputs
key-value data to STDOUT.  Output data is a sequence of a line "key
value\\n", where the fields are separated by a whitespace.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
-k kvgenerator
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
    ......
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.na
-r reducer
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies a reducer program.  The program can have arguments, where
they are separated by a whitespace.
.sp
Reducer Specification: A reducer reads key-value data from STDIN and
outputs the result to STDOUT.  Input data is a sequence of a line "key
value\\n", where the fields are separated by a whitespace.
Lines with the same keys constitutes consecutive lines.
.RE
