Copyright (C) 2012-2014 RIKEN AICS

KMR comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.

This is KMR, a high-performance map-reduce library.  See
"doc/html/index.html" in the installation directory for an overview
and API usage.  See "http://mt.aics.riken.jp/kmr" for more
information.  See "http://mt.aics.riken.jp/" for general project
information.

FILES:

The "src" directory contains the source code.  The "cmd" directory
contains the source code of the commands.  The "kmrrun" directory
contains the source code for shell command pipelining (or
"streaming").  The "ex" directory contains a few examples.  The "html"
and "man" directories contain the Doxygen generated documents and the
manual pages for commands.  The "shell" directory contains the former
commands of shell command pipelining.

The file "gensort-1.2.tar.gz" is a 3rd-party software of the data
generator of TeraSort.  The file "tpch_2_17_0.zip" is also a 3rd-party
software of the data generator of TPC-H.  These files are not part of
KMR, but they are needed for running some examples.

COPYRIGHTS:

The files in "src" directory include the materials copyrighted by
AKIYAMA Lab., Tokyo Institute of Technology (titec) (code from the
GHOST Project) and the materials copyrighted by The Regents of the
University of California (code from NetBSD-5.1.2).  Some distributions
may not contain the materials copyrighted by AKIYAMA Lab.  The files
in "ex" directory include the materials copyrighted by Stanford
University (code from Phoenix MapReduce Library), and the materials
copyrighted by Sandia Corporation (code from MapReduce-MPI Library).
The files in "gensort-1.2.tar.gz" are copyrighted by Chris Nyberg
(chris.nyberg@ordinal.com).  The files in "tpch_2_17_0.zip" are
copyrighted by the Transaction Processing Performance Council (TPC).
All others are copyrighted by RIKEN AICS, and all rights reserved
except for the grants by the license.

LICENSE TERMS:

KMR is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License, version 2.1 as
published by the Free Software Foundation.  KMR is distributed WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Lesser General Public
License for more details.  You should have received a copy of the GNU
Lesser General Public License along with KMR.  If not, see
"http://www.gnu.org/licenses/".
